---
layout:     post
title:      C++ Build Gem
date:       2015-06-16 17:50:18
summary:    Ruby gem to build C++ files.
categories: General
tags: 		Ruby, Gem, GeneralDev, Coding,
---


My first gem! I'm sure this must be a special moment if I was sentimental enough to care about that kinda thing :) This is a gem to help build C++ files.


## Why

I started this little gem to bridge the gap between using full blown IDE's and compiling on the command line. I sometimes find that making a project is too verbose for compiling a bunch of files, while the command line quickly becomes tedious.

Why not just use Rake? Well I wanted something a little more geared towards C++, and while I use Rake for a lot of things both in and out of work, I would still end up having to write and cut and paste code to build the command line string.

## How To Use It

It's very similar to Rake so it shouldn't feel out of place.

The usual

{% highlight bash %}

$ gem install cpp_builder

{% endhighlight %}

Create a file called `buildfile` in the directory you wish to run it from. Then edit the file to be something like this...

{% highlight ruby %}

CppBuild.build :test_basic do |b|

  b.compiler = :clang
  b.inc_dirs = "./", "/usr/local/include"
  b.lib_dirs = "./", "/usr/local/lib"
  b.libs     = "SDL"
  b.files    = "main.cpp", "foo.cpp"
  b.config   = :debug

end

{% endhighlight %}

Then call from the command line.

{% highlight bash %}

$ cpp_build test_basic

{% endhighlight %}

And it will compile your program.


## Support and Future Dev

Currently it only supports OSX and Clang. I hope to get other support in quite soon, in particular support for other compilers. While I still have a need for this I'll keep improving it. When I'm happy with Clang support I'll move to GCC. Windows is a little finicky because its command line interface isn't available by default usually, but I'd like to get that support there to.
